>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, AUGUST 29: ON THE
TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF HURRICANE
KATRINA, THE CONTINUED IMPACT OF
THE STORM ON THOSE WHO LEFT NEW
ORLEANS.
>> MY FAMILY HAS BEEN IN NEW
ORLEANS FOR GENERATIONS.
IT WASN'T UNTIL KATRINA THAT
EVERYONE SORT OF SEPARATED.
SOME FOLKS ARE IN MISSISSIPPI,
SOME ARE IN ALABAMA, FLORIDA,
YOU KNOW.
EVERYONE SCATTERED ABOUT A BIT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW THE FEDERAL
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY,
FEMA, HAS CHANGED IN THE LAST
DECADE.
AND A LEGENDARY NEW ORLEANS
RESTAURANT, REBUILT.
>> I HAD A WHOLE LOT OF HELP.
AND I'M SO BLESSED BECAUSE A LOT
OF PEOPLE DIDN'T HAVE THAT HELP.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
IN NEW ORLEANS TODAY, SORROW AND
A CELEBRATION OF RESILIENCE.
THE CITY IS MARKING THE TENTH
ANNIVERSARY OF HURRICANE
KATRINA, ONE OF THE DEADLIEST
STORMS IN U.S. HISTORY.
AT A SERVICE THIS MORNING,
ELECTED OFFICIALS PAID TRIBUTE
TO THE LIVES LOST AND LAID A
WREATH AT A MEMORIAL FOR
UNCLAIMED AND UNIDENTIFIED
VICTIMS.
TODAY, THERE WERE PARADES AROUND
THE CITY, INCLUDING IN THE LOWER
NINTH WARD, THE LOW-INCOME
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT SUFFERED SOME
OF THE WORST FLOODING FROM
KATRINA.
THE CATEGORY-THREE HURRICANE
MADE LANDFALL TEN YEARS AGO
TODAY, BREACHING THE LEVEES OF
NEW ORLEANS AND LEAVING 80% OF
THE CITY UNDER WATER.
KATRINA CAUSED MORE THAN
$100 BILLION IN PROPERTY DAMAGE
IN THE GULF COAST REGION.
700,000 RESIDENTS WERE
DISPLACED, AND 300,000 LOST
THEIR HOMES.
ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, THE STORM CAUSED
1,200 DEATHS, MOST IN LOUISIANA
AND MORE THAN 200 IN
MISSISSIPPI.
SOME ESTIMATES PUT THE TOLL AS
HIGH AS 1,800 LIVES.
WE WILL HAVE MUCH MORE ON
KATRINA IN A MOMENT.
TEXAS AUTHORITIES HAVE ARRESTED
A SUSPECT IN LAST NIGHT'S
FATAL SHOOTING OF A SHERIFF'S
DEPUTY AT A HOUSTON GAS STATION.
WHILE HE WAS FILLING UP HIS
PATROL CAR, 47-YEAR-OLD DARREN
GOFORTH WAS SHOT SEVERAL TIMES
IN WHAT POLICE CALL "AN
UNPROVOKED, EXECUTION-STYLE
KILLING."
THE SUSPECT HAD BEEN DESCRIBED
AS A MAN IN HIS 20s WHO
AMBUSHED GOFORTH AND DROVE AWAY
IN A PICKUP TRUCK.
HUNGARY IS DETAINING FOUR
ALLEGED HUMAN SMUGGLERS FOR
ABANDONING A TRUCK FILLED WITH
REFUGEES BY A HIGHWAY IN
AUSTRIA.
THE TRUCK WAS FOUND THIS WEEK
WITH 71 DEAD BODIES INSIDE.
THREE BULGARIANS AND AN AFGHAN
CITIZEN COULD BE HELD IN CUSTODY
FOR A MONTH AS THE INVESTIGATION
CONTINUES.
SO, FOR THIS YEAR, 140,000
MIGRANTS HAVE SOUGHT REFUGE IN
HUNGARY.
MANY FROM SYRIA CROSS BY BOAT TO
GREECE AND OVERLAND THROUGH THE
BALKANS.
POLICE IN THAILAND ARE NOW
HOLDING A SUSPECT IN THE BOMBING
NEAR A HINDU SHRINE IN BANGKOK
TWO WEEKS AGO.
POLICE SAY THE SUSPECT IS 28
YEARS OLD AND NOT FROM THAILAND,
BUT DID NOT NAME HIM OR HIS
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.
AUTHORITIES SAY THEY FOUND BOMB-
MAKING EQUIPMENT AND FAKE
PASSPORTS IN THE SUSPECT'S
APARTMENT, WHERE HE WAS ARRESTED
TODAY.
THE BACKPACK BOMB LEFT AT THE
ERAWAN SHRINE KILLED 20 PEOPLE
ON AUGUST 17.
IN LEBANON TODAY, THOUSANDS OF
PROTESTERS FILLED THE STREETS OF
DOWNTOWN BEIRUT, CALLING THE
GOVERNMENT CORRUPT AND
INCOMPETENT.
THE MOVEMENT, CALLED "YOU
STINK," HAS GROWN AS UNCOLLECTED
GARBAGE IN THE CAPITAL HAS PILED
UP FOR A MONTH.
LEBANON HAS BEEN WITHOUT A
PRESIDENT FOR MORE THAN A YEAR
AND HAS NOT HELD LEGISLATIVE
ELECTIONS IN SIX YEARS.
PROTESTERS ARE CALLING FOR A
RESOLUTION TO THE GARBAGE CRISIS
AND NEW PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS.
A SPOKESWOMAN FOR "YOU STINK"
SAYS ITS ACTIVITIES WILL
ESCALATE IF THE GOVERNMENT DOES
NOT RESPOND BY TUESDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: HURRICANE
KATRINA DISPLACED 400,000
RESIDENTS OF NEW ORLEANS.
THEY WENT TO CITIES LIKE BATON
ROUGE, HOUSTON, SAN ANTONIO,
ATLANTA AND BIRMINGHAM, AND
MANY THOUSANDS NEVER WENT BACK
TO LIVE.
FOR THE PAST DECADE, FILMMAKER
RENNICK SOHOLT HAS FOLLOWED THE
LIVES OF FIVE FAMILIES WHO FLED
FOR HIS FORTHCOMING DOCUMENTARY"
FORCED CHANGE."
IN TONIGHT'S "SIGNATURE
SEGMENT": TWO OF THOSE KATRINA
MIGRANTS SHARE THEIR STORIES IN
THEIR OWN WORDS.
♪
>> MY NAME IS LORNE LAURANT.
I'M 46 YEARS OLD.
WE ARE IN GEORGETOWN, TEXAS.
I NEVER WOULD'VE IMAGINED THAT,
YOU KNOW, WE WOULD BE HERE IN
TEXAS, OF ALL PLACES, YOU KNOW.
I WORK AT A RESTAURANT, THE
ROARING FORK.
I DO MISS NEW ORLEANS, ALL THE
TIME.
ALL THE OLD PLACES THAT I HUNG
OUT WITH, ALL THE CHILDHOOD
FRIENDS THAT I MET, YOU KNOW.
BECAUSE BASICALLY HERE I JUST, I
HAVE MY WIFE, I HAVE THE KIDS,
BUT THERE ARE STILL A LOT OF
MEMORIES AND FAMILY IN NEW
ORLEANS.
I AM SPLIT BETWEEN TWO PLACES.
FOR ME, NEW ORLEANS IS MY-- IT'S
MY HEART.
MY FAMILY HAS BEEN IN NEW
ORLEANS FOR GENERATIONS.
IT WASN'T UNTIL KATRINA THAT
EVERYONE SORT OF SEPARATED.
SOME FOLKS ARE IN MISSISSIPPI,
SOME ARE IN ALABAMA, FLORIDA.
YOU KNOW, EVERYONE'S SCATTERED
ABOUT A BIT.
AT THE TIME, I WAS WORKING FOR
BOTH HOUSE OF BLUES AND FOR, YOU
KNOW, THE U.S. POSTAL SERVICE.
AND I WAS DOING WELL, YOU KNOW.
MADE GREAT MONEY.
WE WERE ABLE TO TAKE OUR TRIPS,
OUR VACATIONS, YOU KNOW.
AND, I MEAN, IT WAS JUST, IT WAS
A GOOD TIME.
AND WHEN I THINK BACK TO THEN, I
DON'T REMEMBER REALLY WANTING OR
NEEDING ANYTHING, YOU KNOW WHAT
I'M SAYING?
IT'S LIKE-- IT SEEMED LIKE
EVERYTHING WAS PERFECT.
WE HAD THE BABIES; IT WAS JUST A
HAPPY LIFE BACK THEN, YOU KNOW?
WELL, I MEAN, WE'RE HAPPY STILL,
BUT IT'S NOT THE SAME HAPPY, YOU
KNOW?
JESUS, FOLLOW THIS MAN.
I REMEMBER MY LAST DAY.
MY LAST DAY WAS, WHAT?
A SATURDAY.
LOVEE WAS CALLING ME ON THE
PHONE, FREAKING OUT BECAUSE THE
STORM WAS COMING.
CALLING ME, "LEAVE WORK, LEAVE
WORK, LEAVE WORK."
SO, I MEAN, I MADE SURE THAT I
GOT OFF PRETTY EARLY, CAME HOME,
PACKED UP VERY LIGHTLY, VERY
LIGHTLY.
I MEAN, LITERALLY ALL I TOOK
WAS, LIKE, TWO PAIRS OF JEANS,
TWO T-SHIRTS AND SOME FLIP
FLOPS.
THAT WAS IT, AND WE LEFT.
HOME SWEET HOME, BABY.
OH, THIS WAS THE LIVING ROOM.
THE WATER WASN'T VERY HIGH-- WE
GOT MAYBE A FOOT IN HERE-- BUT
YOU CAN SEE ALL THE WALLS.
JUST GOT THE BATHROOMS DONE.
NEW WALLS, NEW FLOORS, ALL THIS
WAS JUST DONE, LIKE, A COUPLE OF
MONTHS AGO.
THIS IS NASTY.
I DON'T WANT TO TOUCH THIS
STUFF.
THERE'S PAPERS IN THE DRAWERS
HERE THAT I GOT TO GET, LIKE,
IMPORTANT PAPERS THAT LOVEE GOT
FROM MY DAD.
ALL RIGHT, COOL.
YEP, THIS IS HIS RING.
YEP, SHE'D DEFINITELY WANT THAT.
TRISTAN WAS LIKE, "BRING BACK MY
BOOKS, BRING BACK MY TOYS."
THERE'S REALLY NOT MUCH MORE WE
CAN TAKE.
I MEAN, HIS SCHOOL SUPPLIES, HE
CAN USE THOSE LATER ON.
I WAS JUST GLAD MY WIFE AIN'T
HERE.
SHE'D BREAK DOWN IN TEARS.
LIKE, FOR THE PAST COUPLE OF
DAYS, COUPLE OF WEEKS, I'D JUST
MISS HOME.
I'D JUST MISS COMING HOME TO MY
HOUSE.
I MISS WALKING INSIDE AND
PLOPPING DOWN IN FRONT OF THE
TELEVISION, YOU KNOW, AND I JUST
MISS HOME.
YOU KNOW, BRINGING THE KIDS OUT
IN THE BACKYARD TO PLAY ON THE
SWING SET, YOU KNOW.
JUST THE SMALL THINGS.
BUT THERE'S NO WAY IN THE WORLD
THAT, YOU KNOW, WE'RE GOING TO
GO THROUGH GUTTING IT OUT.
NO, WE'RE PRETTY MUCH DONE HERE.
IT'S BEEN ALMOST TEN YEARS SINCE
KATRINA, AND I'D SAY THAT MY
LIFE IS-- MY LIFE IS STILL
PRETTY DIFFICULT.
MY WIFE AND I, FOR A LONG TIME,
WERE DEALING WITH POST-TRAUMATIC
STRESS, AND, YOU KNOW, WE'D SNAP
AT EACH OTHER AND ARGUE AND JUST
DIDN'T UNDERSTAND WHY WE FELT
THE WAY THAT WE FELT.
KATRINA, TO ME, IT WAS SORT OF
LIKE OUR 9/11.
IT JUST SHOOK US TO THE CORE.
>> MY NAME IS JANNA FIRMIN, AND
I LIVE IN PEARL RIVER,
LOUISIANA, NOW.
I RIGHT NOW LIVE WITH MY
DAUGHTER MARLY, AND MY SON NOAH
AND MY BOYFRIEND SEAN.
I'VE BEEN HERE FOR ABOUT TWO AND
A HALF YEARS.
I REALLY FEEL LIKE THIS
APARTMENT IN PEARL RIVER, IT'S--
IT'S A GROUNDING SPOT.
AND THIS IS HONESTLY THE FIRST
TIME THAT I'D FELT THAT SINCE
KATRINA.
I REALLY LIKE THE PEACEFULNESS
OF PEARL RIVER.
I REALLY LIKE THE QUIETNESS AND
THE SERENITY.
IT'S A BIG CHANGE FROM THE CITY.
IT'S STILL EMPTY IN A LOT OF
WAYS BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, THE LIFE
THAT I KNEW IS NO MORE, AND I
MISS THAT AND IT HURTS A LOT.
GOD'S GIVEN ME A WHOLE LOT OF
SECOND CHANCES, SO I REALLY
APPRECIATE JUST THE SIMPLE
THINGS, LIKE A QUIET CUP OF
COFFEE IN THE MORNING WITH A
SIMPLE BOOK IN THE EVENING.
SHORTLY BEFORE KATRINA, MY DAD
DIED.
AND THEN KATRINA HAPPENED, AND
THEN EVERYTHING THAT I KNEW, YOU
KNOW-- SCHOOL, WORK, HOUSE,
FAMILY-- LIKE, IT WAS JUST
COMPLETELY ANNIHILATED.
I FEEL LIKE I WAS BLINDSIDED.
EVERYTHING CHANGED.
EVERYTHING WAS JUST RIPPED AWAY
IN AN INSTANT.
MY HOUSE WAS ONLY ABOUT A BLOCK
AWAY FROM WHERE THE LEVEE HAD
BROKE ON THE 17th STREET CANAL.
I LIVED IN MY HOUSE WITH MY
LITTLE GIRL MARLY, WHO'S SEVEN;
AND MY LITTLE BOY RUSSELL, WHO'S
TWO.
AND I TOOK BASICALLY A BACKPACK
OF CLOTHES FOR ME AND THE KIDS
AND I LEFT.
IF THERE'S ANYTHING TO BRING,
BACK OUT.
OKAY, THIS IS WHERE WE KIND OF
HAVE TO GET IN.
THIS IS WHAT I HEARD, ANYWAY;
THIS IS WHERE YOU HAVE TO GET
IN.
OH, MY GOD.
WOW.
OH, MY JEEZUM.
LOOK AT MY ROOM!
YOU CAN'T EVEN GET IN IT.
HOLY-- HOLY, HOLY LORD.
OH, MAN.
>> OH, MY GOD.
YOUR BATHROOM'S SOAKED.
DAMN.
>> OH, MY GRACIOUS.
I CAN'T EVEN BEL-- BEGIN.
THERE'S NO WAY I'M GOING IN
THERE.
WOW.
>> I CAN'T EVEN GET IN HERE.
LET ME GET OUT OF YOUR WAY.
>> OKAY.
THIS IS-- LIKE, I HONESTLY
THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO BE ABLE
TO GET MY DRESSER AND, LIKE,
GRAB A COUPLE OF THINGS OFF THAT
I HAD LEFT BACK HERE, LIKE A
LITTLE TINY JEWELRY BOX AND
WHATNOT.
WAIT, LOOK.
HERE'S THE JEWELRY BOX THAT I
WANTED TO GET.
I DON'T THINK I'LL BE WEARING
ANY OF THAT JEWELRY ANYMORE.
YEAH, MY DADDY GOT ME THAT
JEWELRY BOX BEFORE HE PASSED
AWAY.
TOO BAD I DIDN'T TAKE IT WITH
ME, HUH.
HERE'S ANOTHER JEWELRY BOX THAT
WAS ON MY DRESSER.
WOO.
OKAY.
>> IF YOU FALL, I'M NOT PICKING
YOU UP.
>> MAN, I JUST-- I'M SO-- I
CAN'T TAKE THIS STUFF BECAUSE
IT'S JUST TOO TOXIC.
I WOULD LOVE TO, BUT I CAN'T.
I CAN'T DO IT.
EVEN THOUGH IT'S JUST MATERIAL
STUFF, IT IS A LOSS.
IT'S ALMOST LIKE A DEATH.
IT'S A HUGE LOSS THAT YOU HAVE
TO FILTER AND DEAL WITH, AND
IT'S REALLY WEIRD.
IT'S HARD TO PROCESS ALL OF THIS
STUFF.
I HAVE TO ADMIT, THIS IS WAY
WORSE THAN I THOUGHT IT WAS
GOING TO BE.
LIKE, I KNEW IT WAS GOING TO BE
REALLY BAD, BUT WOW.
I LEFT TOWN WITH A BOX OF
PICTURES, A COUPLE OF POETRY
BOOKS, AND THAT'S PRETTY MUCH
IT.
SO, I LOST EVERYTHING ELSE.
GOOD GRACIOUS.
STUFF THAT I HAD HANGING ON MY
WALL IS IN MY BATHTUB.
SHOES ARE IN MY BATHTUB.
>> (INAUDIBLE)
PICTURES ANYWAY.
>> WOW.
KATRINA IS DEFINITELY STILL
HAUNTING.
IT REALLY IS.
BUT I'M NOT SURE IF IT WILL EVER
COMPLETELY GO AWAY BECAUSE IT
WAS VERY MUCH LIKE A DEATH, THE
DEATH OF AN ENTIRE CITY ALMOST,
AND EVERYTHING THAT I KNEW.
YEAH, I'M STILL-- I STILL DON'T
THINK, TEN YEARS LATER, THAT
I'VE LEARNED TO DEAL WITH IT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW HURRICANE
KATRINA PROMPTED CHANGES IN THE
LAWS ABOUT EVACUATING PETS IN
NATURAL DISASTERS.
>> ONE OF THE REALLY REMARKABLE
THINGS THAT CAME OUT OF THE
STORM WAS JUST HOW MUCH PEOPLE
REALIZED HOW MUCH EVERYBODY
CARED SO MUCH FOR THEIR ANIMALS.
>> Sreenivasan: FIND OUT MORE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: IN THE AFTERMATH
OF HURRICANE KATRINA, THE
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY, FEMA, WAS WIDELY BLAMED
FOR A LACK OF PREPAREDNESS AND
AN INADEQUATE RESPONSE.
FEMA WAS SLOW TO DELIVER FOOD
AND SUPPLIES AND HOUSED
DISPLACED RESIDENTS IN TOXIC
TRAILERS.
UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE PROFESSOR
RICK SYLVES STUDIES FEMA AND
JOINS ME NOW TO DISCUSS ITS
CHANGES DURING THE PAST DECADE.
I THINK THE QUESTION MOST PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO WONDER IS HAS FEMA
IMPROVED?
AND IF SO, HOW?
>> YES, THEY DO EXTREMELY GOOD
JOBS ON RELATIVELY SMALL-SCALE
DISASTERS.
THEY'VE DONE A TREMENDOUSLY GOOD
JOB IN ENHANCING THE CAPACITY OF
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
IF ANYTHING, THE FIELD OF
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT THAT'S
GROWING EVEN ACADEMICALLY ACROSS
THE COUNTRY OWES ITS ORIGINS TO
FEMA, AND WE NEED TO THANK THAT
AGENCY FOR THAT.
IN ADDITION, FEW OTHER COUNTRIES
HAVE FEMA-LIKE EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATIONS.
EVEN THE MOST DEVELOPED DON'T
COME CLOSE TO PROVIDING, THROUGH
AGENCIES LIKE FEMA, THE RANGE OF
POST-DISASTER ASSISTANCE THAT
THIS COUNTRY PROVIDES.
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE SAME
TIME, THIS IS STILL HOUSED
INSIDE THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY?
>> YES.
I THINK THIS HAS BEEN A
PREDICAMENT EVER SINCE THAT--
EVER SINCE IT WAS FOLDED INTO
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
IN 2002.
ONE OF THE PROBLEMS IS THAT
HOMELAND SECURITY'S MISSION IS
TO COUNTER TERRORISM.
AND FEMA'S JOB IS TO PROVIDE,
REALLY, DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND
PROVIDE FOR PREPARE
UNDERSTANDNESS FOR DISASTERS.
AND CLEARLY THERE ARE TERRORISM
DUTIES THAT LEGITIMATELY FALL TO
FEMA.
BUT, UNFORTUNATELY, WHEN THEY
TAKE ON THESE DUTIES, THEY ALSO
HAVE-- THEY TAKE ON REQUIREMENTS
OF STATE SECRECY THAT MAKE THE
AGENCY MUCH LESS TRANSPARENT
THAN IT PROBABLY SHOULD BE,
PARTICULARLY GIVEN ITS CIVILIAN
RESPONSIBILITIES AND DISASTER
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
MONEY?
HAS THE BUDGET FOR FEMA
INCREASED OR FOR PREPAREDNESS
AROUND THE COUNTRY IN CASE
ANOTHER HURRICANE KATRINA OR A
SUPERSTORM SANDY HAPPEN?
>> THE MONEY HAS INCREASED
SIGNIFICANTLY.
THERE IS A PRESIDENT'S DISASTER
FUND THAT IS THE MAIN RECEPTACLE
FOR MONIES TO BE DISPENSED NOT
ONLY TO FEMA BUT TO A GREAT MANY
OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES THAT ARE
CALLED INTO ACTION DURING
PERIODS OF DISASTER.
BUT YOU STILL FIND WHEN YOU HAVE
A CATASTROPHIC DISASTER, EVEN
THE GENEROUS INFUSE OF NEW FUNDS
INTO THOSE ACCOUNT ISN'T ENOUGH
TO MEET THE SPENDING DEMANDS.
I THINK FOR KATRINA, $61 BILLION
OF FEDERAL MONEY.
SUPERSTORM SANDY, $48 BILLION.
AND THESE NUMBERS AREN'T FIXED.
THEY CONTINUE TO GO UP OVER TIME
FOR BOTH OF THOSE DISASTERS.
WHEN WE HAVE CATASTROPHIC
DISASTERS, THERE'S A SIGNIFICANT
FINANCIAL BURDEN IMPOSED ON THE
NATIONAL TAXPAYER AND THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT AS A
CONSEQUENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
PROFESSOR RICK SYLVES FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU, I APPRECIATE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN HURRICANE
KATRINA STRUCK, LEAH CHASE WAS
THE CHEF AND CO-OWNER OF THE
LEGENDARY NEW ORLEANS RESTAURANT
DOOKY CHASE'S, A LANDMARK IN THE
CITY'S OLDEST BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD.
CHASE, WHO WAS THEN 82 YEARS
OLD, SAW HER BUSINESS, HER HOME
AND VIRTUALLY EVERYTHING SHE
OWNED WASH AWAY, BUT SHE
RESOLVED TO START OVER.
LOUISIANA PUBLIC BROADCASTING
HAS TRACKED CHASE'S COMEBACK FOR
TEN YEARS AND RECENTLY SAT DOWN
WITH HER.
L.P.B.'S SHAUNA SANFORD HAS THE
STORY.
>> Reporter: 92-YEAR-OLD LEAH
CHASE HAS SERVED UP CREOLE
CUISINE AT HER RESTAURANT, DOOKY
CHASE, FOR NEARLY 70 YEARS.
BUT TEN YEARS AGO, HURRICANE
KATRINA DESTROYED HER
LIVELIHOOD.
>> NOBODY KNEW WHAT TO DO.
80% OF THE CITY UNDER WATER,
WHAT YOU GONNA DO?
WHERE YOU GONNA GO?
WHAT'S YOUR NEXT MOVE?
YOU DON'T KNOW.
SO, IT WAS FRIGHTENING.
>> Reporter: FOR DECADES, DOOKY
CHASE-- NAMED AFTER HER FATHER-
IN-LAW-- WASTHERESTAURANT IN
NEW ORLEANS' HISTORICALLY BLACK
TREME DISTRICT, SERVING PO'
BOY SANDWICHES, GUMBO, GREENS,
FRIED CHICKEN AND SEAFOOD.
>> I WENT TO DOOKY CHASE'S TO
GET SOMETHING TO EAT.
>> RAY CHARLES-- THIS WAS RAY'S
PLACE.
WE USED TO STAY OPEN '¡TIL 4:00
IN THE MORNING.
AND THEN, YOU SEE, WE'D GET ALL
THE MUSICIANS WHEN THEY GET OFF.
LENA HORNE ALWAYS LIKED HER
FRIED CHICKEN.
SARAH VAUGHAN WAS A SWEETHEART,
AND SHE LIKED STUFFED CRABS.
WELL, YOU SEE, MY HUSBAND WAS A
MUSICIAN, AND HE KNEW ALL I DID
WAS FEED THOSE PEOPLE WHEN THEY
CAME THROUGH.
>> Reporter: IN THE SEGREGATED
SOUTH, CHASE'S WAS A SAFE PLACE
FOR CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVISTS TO
MEET.
>> PEOPLE CAME BEFORE
INTEGRATION BECAUSE IF THEY HAD
TO MEET WITH BLACK PEOPLE, THEY
EITHER MET IN CHURCH OR THEY MET
HERE.
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES YOU CAN DO A
LOT OVER FOOD.
IN NEW ORLEANS, WE DO A LOT OVER
FOOD.
>> Reporter: KATRINA WAS THE
WORST STORM THE CITY AND CHASE
EXPERIENCED IN 40 YEARS.
>> IN 1965, WHEN WE HAD BESSIE,
I SAW THAT DOWN THERE; IT WAS
TERRIBLE.
BUT THAT WAS ONE SECTION.
THIS TIME, THERE WAS WATER ALL
OVER.
I HAD NEVER IN MY LIFE SEEN
ANYTHING LIKE THIS.
BEFORE THE HURRICANE CAME, WE
WERE WORKING HARD, REALLY
WORKING HARD.
AND HERE COMES KATRINA, AND NOW
OVERNIGHT YOU HAVE NO PLACE.
>> Reporter: CHASE, HER CHILDREN
AND HER SISTER LOST THEIR HOMES.
BUILDINGS ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THE RESTAURANT WERE BOARDED UP.
CHASE DECIDED TO STAY AND
REBUILD.
>> BUT PEOPLE SAY, "WHAT YOU
GOING BACK FOR?
WHAT'S THERE TO DO?"
YOU KNOW, WE HAD TO BUILD THIS
CITY BACK.
I HAD NOWHERE ELSE TO LIVE.
THANK GOODNESS THEY GAVE ME A
TRAILER.
AT LEAST I HAD A PLACE TO SLEEP.
YOU KNOW, THE TRAILER WASN'T THE
BEST THING IN THE WORLD, BUT,
YOU KNOW, I CAME THROUGH THE
DEPRESSION, HONEY, SO, YOU KNOW,
ANYTHING IS GOOD.
I CAN LAY MY HEAD ANYWHERE AS
LONG AS I HAD SHELTER OVER IT.
>> Reporter: AFTER TAKING ON
FIVE FEET OF WATER, THE
RESTAURANT CLOSED FOR TWO YEARS.
IT NEVER CROSSED CHASE'S MIND
NOT TO REOPEN.
BUT IT COST $500,000, AND
INSURANCE COVERED ONLY PART OF
THE TAB.
DONATIONS COVERED THE REST.
>> THE BIGGEST CHALLENGE WAS
GETTING THIS WORK DONE.
I THOUGHT I COULD NEVER GET IT
DONE, BUT I HAD A WHOLE LOT OF
HELP.
AND I'M SO BLESSED BECAUSE A LOT
OF PEOPLE DIDN'T HAVE THAT HELP.
>> Reporter: MOST DAYS, YOU CAN
FIND HER IN THE KITCHEN AT 8:00
IN THE MORNING.
IF YOU HAVE THE ENERGY, SHE
SAYS, YOU ARE SUPPOSED TO WORK
AND MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> YOU LEARN WHAT'S IMPORTANT.
YOU LEARN HOW TO LIVE, HOW TO
LIVE WITH ONE ANOTHER.
YOU LEARN HOW TO DO THINGS WHEN
YOU HAVE TO DO THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: AMONG MRS.
CHASE'S ADMIRERS IS PRESIDENT
BARACK OBAMA.
DURING HIS VISIT TO NEW ORLEANS'
TREME NEIGHBORHOOD THIS WEEK,
THE PRESIDENT GAVE CHASE A WARM
GREETING.
HE SAMPLED HER GUMBO AND FRIED
CHICKEN BACK IN 2008 BUT DID NOT
HAVE TIME TO EAT THERE THIS
TIME.
CHASE TOLD THE NEWSHOUR SHE
PLANS TO SHIP SOME CREOLE
CUISINE TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: ONCE AGAIN, WE
TAKE A LOOK AT THE CHANGING
NATURE OF WORK IN THE NEW
ECONOMY.
THIS WEEK, THE NATIONAL LABOR
RELATIONS BOARD MADE A RULING
THAT COULD PLAY AN IMPORTANT
ROLE, STATING THAT AN EMPLOYER
IS LEGALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR
EMPLOYEES EVEN WHEN THEY ARE
HIRED THROUGH SUBCONTRACTORS OR
BY THEIR INDEPENDENTLY-OWNED
FRANCHISES.
MANY OF THOSE WORKERS ARE LOW-
WAGE, PART-TIME OR TEMPORARY.
JOINING ME NOW IS REPORTER
MELANIE TROTTMAN OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
SO WHAT'S AT THE CORE OF THIS
CASE HERE?
>> HOW MUCH CONTROL DOES A
COMPANY HAVE OVER THE WORKERS IN
QUESTION?
SO McDONALD'S, FOR EXAMPLE.
DO THEY CONTROL THE WAGES AND
WORKING CONDITIONS AT AN
INDEPENDENTLY OWNED STORE IN
IOWA?
IT USED TO BE THAT YOU HAD TO
HAVE DIRECT CONTROL TO BE
CONSIDERED A JOINT EMPLOYER.
THAT MEANT YOU WOULD
CO-DETERMINE THINGS LIKE WAGES
AND WORKING CONDITIONS.
WELL NOW THE BOARD SAYS EVEN
INDIRECT CONTROL, YOU RESERVE
THE RIGHT TO HAVE CONTROL OVER
THE WORKERS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ARE THE
RIPPLE EFFECTS HERE?
DOES THAT MEAN McDONALD'S CORP
IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WAGES OR
WHETHER OR NOT THESE EMPLOYEES
CAN UNIONIZE?
>> WELL, WHAT IT MEANS IS A
McDONALD'S CORP OR A COMPANY
THAT SUBCONTRACTS WORKERS
COULD BE DRAWN INTO COLLECTIVE
BARGAINING TALKS WITH WORKERS AT
A RESTAURANT OR WORKERS AT A
TEMPORARY STAFFING COMPANY WHO
WANT TO UNIONIZE.
AND THE RATIONALE IS UNIONS SAY,
LOOK, THESE COMPANIES AFFECT THE
WAGES AND WORKING CONDITIONS OF
THESE WORKERS, AND SO THE
COMPANIES NEED TO BE AT THE
TABLE FOR US TO BARGAIN
EFFECTIVELY FOR THE WORKER.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS HAS GOT
TO BE GETTING SOME PUSH-BACK
FROM THE BUSINESS COMMUNITY,
SAYING, "IT'S GOING TO BE HARDER
FOR ME TO EMPLOY PEOPLE.
IT'S GOING TO BE HARDER FOR ME
TO NEGOTIATE EVERY TIME."
>> WHAT THEY'RE SAYING IS, "THIS
IS GOING TO UNDERMINE THE
EFFICIENCY OF CONTRACTING AND
FRANCHISING.
WE IS THE OUR BUSINESSES UP THIS
WAY TO HAVE FLEXIBILITY AND, YOU
KNOW, THIS COULD RESULT IN LESS
FLEXIBILITY.
IT COULD RAISE OUR COSTS.
IT COULD CAUSE MAJOR PROBLEMS."
>> Sreenivasan: MELANIE
TROTTMAN FROM THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, THE
UNITED NATIONS HAS CONFIRMED THE
DESTRUCTION OF AN ANCIENT TEMPLE
IN PALMYRA, SYRIA, USING
SATELLITE IMAGERY.
THIS IMAGE SHOWS THE TEMPLE
TWO MONTHS AGO BEFORE ISIS
CLAIMED TO BLOW IT UP.
THIS IMAGE SHOWS THE SITE TWO
DAYS AGO WITH ALL OF THE COLUMNS
GONE.
THE TEMPLE WAS NEARLY 2,000
YEARS OLD.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.